## Bulk nanostructured thermoelectric materials: current research and future prospects

A recent result which has resulted in a remarkable increase in ZT is the use of impurity band energy levels to increase the Seebeck coefficient.25 In most semiconductors, the addition of impurity atoms introduces states with energies in the band gap. If these states are very close to the conduction or valence band edges, as is the case for P or B in Si, the electrons (or holes) will be thermally activated into the conduction (or valence) bands and will be able to conduct. In some exceptional cases, however, the energy level created by the impurity can actually lie in the conduction or valence bands, creating a resonant level and a local maximum in the electronic density of states. This is qualitatively illustrated in Fig. 9. If the Fermi level is close to the distortion, it is theoretically expected that the Seebeck coefficient will increase. Enhancements in thermoelectric properties due to an increase in the electronic density of states were previously theoretically predicted by Mahan81 and Dresselhaus.22 Recently, an increase in Seebeck coefficient using the resonant level concept was experimentally demonstrated by Heremans and coworkers in bulk Tl-doped PbTe.25 Tl introduces a resonant level near the valence band edge in PbTe, and since the Fermi level in p-type PbTe is also near the valence band edge the Seebeck coefficient increases significantly over that of the bulk. Just by introducing a small Tl concentration, these researchers were able to double ZT from ZT ¼ 0.7 for bulk p-type PbTe to ZT ¼ 1.5 for 2% Tldoped PbTe. It should be possible to create a material which uses both the resonant level and the nanocomposite concepts: one simply needs to add Tl to PbTe and generate the nanocomposite in the usual manner. The resulting material should have a lower thermal conductivity than the bulk value but significantly improved electrical properties due to the Tl doping. Our group has already started experimenting with this idea, and we have found that by simply mixing together Pb, Te, and Tl in the right proportions we are able to reproduce Heremans’ result. We are currently working to stabilize the resulting nanocomposite, since small grains in PbTe tend to grow even at moderate temperatures. If grain stabilization can be achieved it is expected that the material will have a further improved ZT value. The other area of research that suggests itself from this work is identifying other material systems in which the resonant level concept would be effective. While Tl-doped PbTe did show a remarkable increase in ZT, Tl itself is highly toxic, making the commercial use of this material undesirable. Though resonant levels are not common, it is reasonable to believe that there are at least a few other materials in which impurities can introduce resonant levels near the band edges. These might be able to be identified using density functional theory or spectroscopic techniques to determine the impurity energy levels. These techniques together will hopefully help clarify the origin of the resonant level and allow researchers to fully realize the potential of this approach towards both enhancing the power factor and reducing the thermal conductivity.



## Compromise and Synergy in High-Efficiency  Thermoelectric Materials

Resonant levels (RLs), which were first identified in metals in  the 1950s[162] and called “virtual bound states”, present another  approach to distort the DOS in bulk solids. RLs appear when  the energy level created by the impurity can lie in the conduction or valence band of the host semiconductor. The influence  of RLs on the Seebeck coefficient arises from two aspects.[163] First, RLs induce a narrow peak in the DOS, which is favorable  for achieving a large Seebeck coefficient. Second, the RLs diffuse conduction electrons in a way that is extremely sensitive  to their energy, i.e., resonant scattering, leading to a possible  increase or decrease in Seebeck coefficient. However, a third  condition appears: the RL itself must be a delocalized level  with band conduction.[164] An experimental demonstration  of the concept of the RLs was made by Heremans and coworkers.[34,163] In their report, a doubled zT was attained in  2% Tl-doped PbTe samples, which was attributed mainly to  the large enhanced Seebeck coefficient. A notable enhancement in the Seebeck coefficient due to the presence of RLs has  also been reported in Al-doped PbSe,[165] In-doped SnTe,[166] Sn-doped Bi2Te3, [167] and K-doped Bi95Sb5. [168] In order to  achieve the greatest benefit from the RLs, it is necessary to pay  close attention to two control parameters, i.e., the position and  the width of the RLs. The former not only refers to the position of the RLs relative to the band edge, but also the position  of RLs relative to the Fermi level. Taking p-type semiconductors as an example, if the RLs are below the Fermi level (i.e., at  higher energy states), then an increase in Seebeck coefficient is  likely.[58] Therefore, it is necessary to adopt different dopants to  adjust the position of RLs and Fermi level independently.[169] As  for the width of RLs, a value of 10–100 meV is needed to allow  EF inside the RLs, which indicates that the 3d-state or f-state[170] is less practical than the s- or p-state for RLs from the aspect  of their narrowness and difficulty in properly positioning EF. [77] Readers are encouraged to consult the more detailed review by  Heremans[163] for more information about the mechanisms of  RLs and the conditions necessary to find them.